# Vaultwarden Database Decrypt

**Vaultwarden Database Decrypt** is a simple tool that allows you to decrypt the `db.sqlite3` file generated by [Vaultwarden](https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden), using the master password of the target account. The output is a JSON file containing all the decrypted ciphers for the specified user. The Bitwarden encryption process is documented [here](https://bitwarden.com/help/bitwarden-security-white-paper/), but to fully implement the decryption logic, I also referred to the [official Bitwarden client source code](https://github.com/bitwarden/clients/tree/main/libs/common/src/key-management) for the necessary technical details.

## Usage

Just download the latest [release](https://github.com/santanoce/vaultwarden-database-decrypt/releases) and run the executable from the command line. For example, on a Linux machine:
```bash
./vaultwarden-database-decrypt
```

The tool accepts the following parameters, which can either be passed as command-line arguments or entered interactively if omitted:
- `--email`: the email address of the account to decrypt;
- `--password`: the master password of the account;
- `--dbPath`: the path to the database file;
- `--outputFile`: the name of the output file (it will be in JSON format).

For example:
```bash
./vaultwarden-database-decrypt --email "admin@example.org" --dbPath "db.sqlite3"
```

## Known limitations

I realized this tool in my spare time because I wanted to be able to decrypt the Vaultwarden database without relying on a working Bitwarden client; in the end, it turned out to be a fun and educational project too! While it's currently tailored to my specific use case, it could be extended and made more general-purpose with relatively little effort.

Here are some known (not necessarily exhaustive) limitations:
- only works with a **SQLite3** database;
- only supports the **PBKDF2 SHA-256** KDF algorithm;
- decryption of organizations ciphers have not been tested.
